>> Jen Kramer: So this is from the W3C.
And you'll see here in figure one,
this is the way Flexbox works,
also the same way that Floats work.
You have a series of rows, you have cells
inside of them, they can have different
numbers of cells, but fundamentally, one
row has nothing to do with the other row.
In the second example,
if you're old enough to remember the
golden fabulous table base layout days.
It looks like table base layouts with
column spans and row spans, doesn't it?
Yeah, it's like fashion,
what's old is new again, right?
So, it's been 20 years since we did
table base layout, it's about time for
to come back around again.
So, that is a way working,
we've got the ability to span columns,
the ability to span rows.
Make sense?
Okay.
Browser support is always the big issue.
And every time I talk about Grid,
I have to go back and
look up what the browser support is,
[LAUGH] cuz it changes so rapidly.
So basically, it is this.
Full support in the latest browsers
that you would expect, okay?
So Edge 16 is where it starts to come
in on the Microsoft side of things.
But do you even are starting
to get it on mobile devices,
which wasn't true even as recently as
like three months ago or six months ago.
So, it is coming into full support.
You do have partial support on all
of the Microsoft browsers, okay?
Even all the way back to IE 10.
And that is because Grid has been kicking
around in development for a long time,
IE 10 supported an older
version of the specification.
And so you can work with Grid,
using some of that prefixing,
for some of these older browsers.
So be aware that that's out there.
>> Jen Kramer: The browsers
that have no support, or mostly mobile
browsers that are not listed above.
Things like Opera Mini,
Opera Mobile, Blackberry, Samsung.
Although I think Samsung might
actually have just added it,
I don't quite remember.
But I am gonna make
the following argument,
it doesn't matter what mobile
browsers do for grid support.
I'm gonna make that argument.
The reason why is,
typically speaking on a mobile device,
at least at this point in our
design development on the Internet,
we tend to stack our boxes on top
of each other vertically, right?
You don't need any layout in order to do
that, you don't need CSS Grid in order to
stack your boxes on top
of each other vertically.
So the fact that your mobile browsers may
not necessarily have the best support for
Grid doesn't necessarily impact you if
that is in fact the layout that you want.
If you wind up wanting to put things
next to each other on your little mobile
screens, then that might
impact some of your decisions.
But do consider that.
What kind of design are you
doing on a mobile device?
And do you actually need
grid support at all.
Okay, and of course as always,
go to caniuse.com to go and
check with the latest is,
and Grid is changing so
rapidly that you can go there every
month and learn something new.
So I recommend it.
Look at it often.
Okay, so your next question is,
all right, so
we're doing pretty in
terms of Grid support.
What about polyfills?
What about fallbacks?
I am gonna address this towards this
afternoon in a little bit more detail.
But generally speaking if you
are a polyfill kind of person,
and not all of you are,
and I respect that.
If you are a polyfill kind of person,
and you want to back fill to
the old grid specification and pick up
some of those older Microsoft browsers.
There is a polyfilling existence for
that, there it is.
If you wanna polyfill for
the new specifications,
the one that's out there now,
there's a polyfill for that, okay?
There's also this new construct that's
out there CSS called @supports.
Has anyone heard of @supports before?
Anybody here in the classroom?
A few of you have kind of heard of it?
Okay.
So you can go and read up on @supports,
but basically it's like this.
@supports does a quick test, all right?
The syntax basically.
if the browser supports Grid, right?
Then inside of that @supports construct
that you're gonna put in your CSS,
you can put in all the styles
that pertain to like,
this is what you're gonna do if it's Grid,
right?
Here's the one big problem with @supports.
The browser must support @supports, okay?
The browser must support @supports
in order for that code to execute.
So generally speaking if you use
@supports you are gonna put your latest,
hottest CSS inside of it because older
browsers will just skip over it.
Make sense?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay.
I see a lot of blank
looks in the classroom.
What I'm going to suggest to you guys,
because I hadn't really counted on
focusing on @supports,
you can go and read up on it.
This is the link to
the Mozilla Developer network,
and it'll tell you a little
bit about @supports.
Really, you guys are solid CSS people,
you can pick this up in like 5 minutes.
Just read the article, okay?
All right, and then we're gonna look
more at this resource later on today.
Rachel Andrew has been the leaders
on the field of documenting and
explaining CSS Grid.
She has an absolutely fabulous cheat sheet
that basically tells you everything you
need to know in terms of your
fallbacks and your overrides.
And we will look at that in more
detail this afternoon, okay?
So using some combination of these things
you can probably get this to work.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, however, for
the purposes of the class today we are
still going to live in our perfect world
in which we only work with latest
versions of Firefox and Chrome,
it is a glorious world.
And Grid is perfectly
supported everywhere, so
we're really not gonna spend a whole lot
of time worrying about cross browser
compatibility as we
learn the specification.